Some unhelpful remarks from the author

The history of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is now so
complicated that every time I tell it I contradict myself, and whenever
I do get it right I'm misquoted. So the publication of this omnibus
edition seemed like a good opportunity to set the record straight - or
at least firmly crooked. Anything that is put down wrong here is, as far
as I'm concerned, wrong for good.

The idea for the title first cropped up while I was lying drunk in a
field in Innsbruck, Austria, in 1971. Not particularly drunk, just the
sort of drunk you get when you have a couple of stiff Gossers after
not having eaten for two days straight, on account of being a
penniless hitchhiker. We are talking of a mild inability to stand up.

I was traveling with a copy of the Hitch Hiker s Guide to Europe by
Ken Walsh, a very battered copy that I had borrowed from someone.

In fact, since this was 1971 and I still have the book, it must count as
stolen by now. I didn't have a copy of Europe on Five Dollars a Day (as
it then was) because I wasn't in that financial league.

Night was beginning to fall on my field as it spun lazily underneath
me. I was wondering where I could go that was cheaper than
Innsbruck, revolved less and didn't do the sort of things to me that
Innsbruck had done to me that afternoon. What had happened was
this. I had been walking through the town trying to find a particular
address, and being thoroughly lost I stopped to ask for directions
from a man in the street. I knew this mightn't be easy because I don't
speak German, but I was still surprised to discover just how much
difficulty I was having communicating with this particular man.
Gradually the truth dawned on me as we struggled in vain to
understand each other that of all the people in Innsbruck I could have
stopped to ask, the one I had picked did not speak English, did not
speak French and was also deaf and dumb. With a series of sincerely
apologetic hand movements, I disentangled myself, and a few



minutes later, on another street, I stopped and asked another man
who also turned out to be deaf and dumb, which was when I bought
the beers.

I ventured back onto the street. I tried again.

When the third man I spoke to turned out to be deaf and dumb
and also blind I began to feel a terrible weight settling on my
shoulders; wherever I looked the trees and buildings took on dark and
menacing aspects. I pulled my coat tightly around me and hurried
lurching down the street, whipped by a sudden gusting wind. I
bumped into someone and stammered an apology, but he was deaf
and dumb and unable to understand me. The sky loured. The
pavement seemed to tip and spin. If I hadn't happened then to duck
down a side street and pass a hotel where a convention for the deaf
was being held, there is every chance that my mind would have
cracked completely and I would have spent the rest of my life writing
the sort of books for which Kafka became famous and dribbling.

As it is I went to lie in a field, along with my Hitch Hiker's Guide to
Europe, and when the stars came out it occurred to me that if only
someone would write a Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy as well, then
I for one would be off like a shot. Having had this thought I promptly
fell asleep and forgot about it for six years.

I went to Cambridge University. I took a number of baths-and a
degree in English. I worried a lot about girls and what had happened
to my bike. Later I became a writer and worked on a lot of things that
were almost incredibly successful but in fact just failed to see the light
of day. Other writers will know what I mean.

My pet project was to write something that would combine
comedy and science fiction, and it was this obsession that drove me
into deep debt and despair. No one was interested, except finally one
man a BBC radio producer named Simon Brett who had had the same
idea, comedy and science fiction. Although Simon only produced the
first episode before leaving the BBC to concentrate on his own writing
(he is best known in the United Stares for his excellent Charles Paris
detective novels), I owe him an immense debt of gratitude for simply
getting the thing to happen in the first place. He was succeeded by
the legendary Geoffrey Perkins.

In its original form the show was going to be rather different. I was
feeling a little disgruntled with the world at the time and had put



together about six different plots, each of which ended with the
destruction of the world in a different way, and for a different reason.
It was to be called "The Ends of the Earth "

While I was filling in the details of the first plot - in which the Earth
was demolished to make way for a new hyperspace express route - I
realized that I needed to have someone from another planet around
to tell the reader what was going on, to give the story the context it
needed. So I had to work out who he was and what he was doing on
the Earth.

I decided to call him Ford Prefect. (This was a joke that missed
American audiences entirely, of course, since they had never heard of
the rather oddly named little car, and many thought it was a typing
error for Perfect.) I explained in the text that the minimal research my
alien character had done before arriving on this planet had led him to
think that this name would be "nicely inconspicuous." He had simply
mistaken the dominant life form.

So how would such a mistake arise? I remembered when I used to
hitchhike through Europe and would often find that the information
or advice that came my way was out of date or misleading in some
way. Most of it, of course, just came from stories of other people's
travel experiences.

At that point the title The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
suddenly popped back into my mind from wherever it had been
hiding all this time. Ford, I decided, would be a researcher who
collected data for the Guide. As soon as I started to develop this
particular notion, it moved inexorably to the center of the story, and
the rest, as the creator of the original Ford Prefect would say, is bunk.

The story grew in the most convoluted way, as many people will be
surprised to learn. Writing episodically meant that when I finished
one episode I had no idea about what the next one would contain.
When, in the twists and turns of the plot, some event suddenly
seemed to illuminate things that had gone before, I was as surprised
as anyone else.

I think that the BBC's attitude toward the show while it was in
production was very similar to that which Macbeth had toward
murdering people - initial doubts, followed by cautious enthusiasm
and then greater and greater alarm at the sheer scale of the
undertaking and still no end in sight. Reports that Geoffrey and I and



the sound engineers were buried in a subterranean studio for weeks
on end, taking as long to produce a single sound effect as other
people took to produce an entire series (and stealing everybody else's
studio time in which to do so), were all vigorously denied but
absolutely true.

The budget of the series escalated to the point that it could have
practically paid for a few seconds of Dallas. If the show hadn't
worked...

The first episode went out on BBC Radio 4 at 10 30 P.M. on
Wednesday, March 8, 1978, in a huge blaze of no publicity at all. Bats
heard it. The odd dog barked.

After a couple of weeks a letter or two trickled in. So - someone
out there had listened. People I Balked to seemed to like Marvin the
Paranoid Android, whom I had written in as a one - scene joke and
had only developed further at Geoffrey's insistence.

Then some publishers became interested, and I was commissioned
by Pan Books in England to write up the series in book form. After a
lot of procrastination and hiding and inventing excuses and having
baths, I managed to get about two-thirds of it done. At this point they
said, very pleasantly and politely, that I had already passed ten
deadlines, so would I please just finish the page I was on and let them
have the damn thing.

Meanwhile, I was busy trying to write another series and was also
writing and script editing the TV series "Dr. Who," because while it
was all very pleasant to have your own radio series, especially one
that somebody had written in to say they had heard, it didn't exactly
buy you lunch.

So that was more or less the situation when the book The
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy was published in England in
September 1979 and appeared on the Sunday Times mass market
best-seller list at number one and just stayed there. Clearly,
somebody had been listening.

This is where things start getting complicated, and this is what I
was asked, in writing this Introduction, to explain. The Guide has
appeared in so many forms - books, radio, a television series, records
and soon to be a major motion picture - each time with a different
story line that even its most acute followers have become baffled at
times.



Here then is a breakdown of the different versions - not including
the various stage versions, which haven't been seen in the States and
only complicate the matter further.

The radio series began in England in March 1978. The first series
consisted of six programs, or "fits" as they were called. Fits 1 thru 6.
Easy. Later that year, one more episode was recorded and broadcast,
commonly known as the Christmas episode. It contained no reference
of any kind to Christmas. It was called the Christmas episode because
it was first broadcast on December 24, which is not Christmas Day.
After this, things began to get increasingly complicated.

In the fall of 1979, the first Hitchhiker book was published in
England, called The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. It was a
substantially expanded version of the first four episodes of the radio
series, in which some of the characters behaved in entirely different
ways and others behaved in exactly the same ways but for entirely
different reasons, which amounts to the same thing but saves
rewriting the dialogue.

At roughly the same time a double record album was released,
which was, by contrast, a slightly contracted version of the first four
episodes of the radio series. These were not the recordings that were
originally broadcast but wholly new recordings of substantially the
same scripts. This was done because we had used music off
gramophone records as incidental music for the series, which is fine
on radio, but makes commercial release impossible.

In January 1980, five new episodes of "The Hitchhiker's Guide to
the Galaxy" were broadcast on BBC Radio, all in one week, bringing
the total number to twelve episodes.

In the fall of 1980, the second Hitchhiker book was published in
England, around the same time that Harmony Books published the
first book in the United States. It was a very substantially reworked,
reedited and contracted version of episodes 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, S and 6
(in that order) of the radio series "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the
Galaxy." In case that seemed too straightforward, the book was called
The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, because it included the
material from radio episodes of "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the
Galaxy," which was set in a restaurant called Milliways, otherwise
known as the Restaurant at the End of the Universe.



At roughly the same time, a second record album was made
featuring a heavily rewritten and expanded version of episodes 5 and
6 of the radio series. This record album was also called The Restaurant
at the End of the Universe.

Meanwhile, a series of six television episodes of "The Hitchhiker's
Guide to the Galaxy" was made by the BBC and broadcast in January
1981. This was based, more or less, on the first six episodes of the
radio series. In other words, it incorporated most of the book The
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and the second half of the book The
Restaurant at be End of the Universe. Therefore, though it followed
the basic structure of the radio series, it incorporated revisions from
the books, which didn't.

In January 1982 Harmony Books published The Restaurant at the
End of the Universe in the United States.

In the summer of 1982, a third Hitchhiker book was published
simultaneously in England and the United States, called Life, the
Universe and Everything. This was not based on anything that had
already been heard or seen on radio or television. In fact it flatly
contradicted episodes 7, 8, 9,10, I 1 and 12 of the radio series. These
episodes of "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy," you will
remember, had already been incorporated in revised form in the book
called The Restaurant at the End of the Universe.

At this point I went to America to write a film screenplay which was
completely inconsistent with most of what has gone on so far, and
since that film was then delayed in the making (a rumor currently has
it that filming will start shortly before the Last Trump), I wrote a
fourth and last book in the trilogy, So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish.
This was published in Britain and the USA in the fall of 1984 and it
effectively contradicted everything to date, up to and including itself.

As if this all were not enough I wrote a computer game for Infocom
called The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, which bore only fleeting
resemblances to anything that had previously gone under that title,
and in collaboration with Geoffrey Perkins assembled The Hitchhiker s
Guide to the Galaxy: The Original Radio Scripts (published in England
and the USA in 1985). Now this was an interesting venture. The book
is, as the title suggests, a collection of all the radio scripts, as
broadcast, and it is therefore the only example of one Hitchhiker
publication accurately and consistently reflecting another. I feel a



little uncomfortable with this - which is why the introduction to that
book was written after the final and definitive one you are now
reading and, of course, flatly contradicts it.

People often ask me how they can leave the planet, so I have
prepared some brief notes.

How to Leave the Planet

1. Phone NASA. Their phone number is (713) 483-3111. Explain that
it's very important that you get away as soon as possible.

2. If they do not cooperate, phone any friend you may have in the
White House-(202) 456-1414-to have a word on your behalf with the
guys at NASA.

3. If you don't have any friends in the White House, phone the
Kremlin (ask the overseas operator for 0107-095-295-9051). They
don't have any friends there either (at least, none to speak of), but
they do seem to have a little influence, so you may as well try.

4. If that also fails, phone the Pope for guidance. His telephone
number is 011-39-6-6982, and I gather his switchboard is infallible.

5. If all these attempts fail, flag down a passing flying saucer and
explain that de's vitally important you get away before your phone bill
arrives.


Douglas Adams
Los Angeles 1983 and
London 1985/1986



DOUGLAS ADAMS


THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO

THE GALAXY


For Jonny Brock and Clare Gorst
and all other Arlingtonians
for tea, sympathy, and a sofa



Preface


Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end of
the western spiral arm of the Galaxy lies a small unregarded yellow
sun.

Orbiting this at a distance of roughly ninety-two million miles is an
utterly insignificant little blue green planet whose ape-descended life
forms are so amazingly primitive that they still think digital watches
are a pretty neat idea.

This planet has - or rather had - a problem, which was this: most
of the people on it were unhappy for pretty much of the time. Many
solutions were suggested for this problem, but most of these were
largely concerned with the movements of small green pieces of paper,
which is odd because on the whole it wasn't the small green pieces of
paper that were unhappy.

And so the problem remained; lots of the people were mean, and
most of them were miserable, even the ones with digital watches.

Many were increasingly of the opinion that they'd all made a big
mistake in coming down from the trees in the first place. And some
said that even the trees had been a bad move, and that no one should
ever have left the oceans.

And then, one Thursday, nearly two thousand years after one man
had been nailed to a tree for saying how great it would be to be nice
to people for a change, one girl sitting on her own in a small cafe in
Rickmansworth suddenly realized what it was that had been going
wrong all this time, and she finally knew how the world could be
made a good and happy place. This time it was right, it would work,
and no one would have to get nailed to anything.

Sadly, however, before she could get to a phone to tell anyone
about it, a terribly stupid catastrophe occurred, and the idea was lost
forever.

This is not her story.



But it is the story of that terrible stupid catastrophe and some of its
consequences.

It is also the story of a book, a book called The Hitch Hiker's Guide
to the Galaxy - not an Earth book, never published on Earth, and until
the terrible catastrophe occurred, never seen or heard of by any
Earthman.

Nevertheless, a wholly remarkable book.

In fact it was probably the most remarkable book ever to come out
of the great publishing houses of Ursa Minor - of which no Earthman
had ever heard either.

Not only is it a wholly remarkable book, it is also a highly successful
one - more popular than the Celestial Home Care Omnibus, better
selling than Fifty More Things to do in Zero Gravity, and more
controversial than Oolon Colluphid's trilogy of philosophical
blockbusters Where God Went Wrong, Some More of God's Greatest
Mistakes and Who is this God Person Anyway?

In many of the more relaxed civilizations on the Outer Eastern Rim
of the Galaxy, the Hitch Hiker's Guide has already supplanted the
great Encyclopedia Galactica as the standard repository of all
knowledge and wisdom, for though it has many omissions and
contains much that is apocryphal, or at least wildly inaccurate, it
scores over the older, more pedestrian work in two important
respects.

First, it is slightly cheaper; and secondly it has the words DON'T
PANIC inscribed in large friendly letters on its cover.

But the story of this terrible, stupid Thursday, the story of its
extraordinary consequences, and the story of how these
consequences are inextricably intertwined with this remarkable book
begins very simply.

It begins with a house.



Chapter 1


The house stood on a slight rise just on the edge of the village. It
stood on its own and looked over a broad spread of West Country
farmland. Not a remarkable house by any means - it was about thirty
years old, squattish, squarish, made of brick, and had four windows
set in the front of a size and proportion which more or less exactly
failed to please the eye.

The only person for whom the house was in any way special was
Arthur Dent, and that was only because it happened to be the one he
lived in. He had lived in it for about three years, ever since he had
moved out of London because it made him nervous and irritable. He
was about thirty as well, dark haired and never quite at ease with
himself. The thing that used to worry him most was the fact that
people always used to ask him what he was looking so worried about.
He worked in local radio which he always used to tell his friends was a
lot more interesting than they probably thought. It was, too - most of
his friends worked in advertising.

It hadn't properly registered with Arthur that the council wanted to
knock down his house and build an bypass instead.

At eight o'clock on Thursday morning Arthur didn't feel very good.
He woke up blearily, got up, wandered blearily round his room,
opened a window, saw a bulldozer, found his slippers, and stomped
off to the bathroom to wash.

Toothpaste on the brush - so. Scrub.

Shaving mirror - pointing at the ceiling. He adjusted it. For a
moment it reflected a second bulldozer through the bathroom
window. Properly adjusted, it reflected Arthur Dent's bristles. He
shaved them off, washed, dried, and stomped off to the kitchen to
find something pleasant to put in his mouth.

Kettle, plug, fridge, milk, coffee. Yawn.

The word bulldozer wandered through his mind for a moment in
search of something to connect with.



The bulldozer outside the kitchen window was quite a big one.

He stared at it.

"Yellow," he thought and stomped off back to his bedroom to get
dressed.

Passing the bathroom he stopped to drink a large glass of water,
and another. He began to suspect that he was hung over. Why was he
hung over? Had he been drinking the night before? He supposed that
he must have been. He caught a glint in the shaving mirror. "Yellow,"
he thought and stomped on to the bedroom.

He stood and thought. The pub, he thought. Oh dear, the pub. He
vaguely remembered being angry, angry about something that
seemed important. He'd been telling people about it, telling people
about it at great length, he rather suspected: his clearest visual
recollection was of glazed looks on other people's faces. Something
about a new bypass he had just found out about. It had been in the
pipeline for months only no one seemed to have known about it.
Ridiculous. He took a swig of water. It would sort itself out, he'd
decided, no one wanted a bypass, the council didn't have a leg to
stand on. It would sort itself out.

God what a terrible hangover it had earned him though. He looked
at himself in the wardrobe mirror. He stuck out his tongue. "Yellow,"
he thought. The word yellow wandered through his mind in search of
something to connect with.

Fifteen seconds later he was out of the house and lying in front of a
big yellow bulldozer that was advancing up his garden path.

Mr. L Prosser was, as they say, only human. In other words he was
a carbon-based life form descended from an ape. More specifically he
was forty, fat and shabby and worked for the local council. Curiously
enough, though he didn't know it, he was also a direct male-line
descendant of Genghis Khan, though intervening generations and
racial mixing had so juggled his genes that he had no discernible
Mongoloid characteristics, and the only vestiges left in Mr. L Prosser
of his mighty ancestry were a pronounced stoutness about the turn
and a predilection for little fur hats.

He was by no means a great warrior: in fact he was a nervous
worried man. Today he was particularly nervous and worried because



something had gone seriously wrong with his job - which was to see
that Arthur Dent's house got cleared out of the way before the day
was out.

"Come off it, Mr. Dent,", he said, "you can't win you know. You
can't lie in front of the bulldozer indefinitely." He tried to make his
eyes blaze fiercely but they just wouldn't do it.

Arthur lay in the mud and squelched at him.

"I'm game," he said, "we'll see who rusts first."

"I'm afraid you're going to have to accept it," said Mr. Prosser
gripping his fur hat and rolling it round the top of his head, "this
bypass has got to be built and it's going to be built!"

"First I've heard of it," said Arthur, "why's it going to be built?"

Mr. Prosser shook his finger at him for a bit, then stopped and put
it away again.

"What do you mean, why's it got to be built?" he said. "It's a bypass.
You've got to build bypasses."

Bypasses are devices which allow some people to drive from point
A to point B very fast whilst other people dash from point B to point A
very fast. People living at point C, being a point directly in between,
are often given to wonder what's so great about point A that so many
people of point B are so keen to get there, and what's so great about
point B that so many people of point A are so keen to get there. They
often wish that people would just once and for all work out where the
hell they wanted to be.

Mr. Prosser wanted to be at point D. Point D wasn't anywhere in
particular, it was just any convenient point a very long way from
points A, B and C. He would have a nice little cottage at point D, with
axes over the door, and spend a pleasant amount of time at point E,
which would be the nearest pub to point D. His wife of course wanted
climbing roses, but he wanted axes. He didn't know why - he just
liked axes. He flushed hotly under the derisive grins of the bulldozer
drivers.

He shifted his weight from foot to foot, but it was equally
uncomfortable on each. Obviously somebody had been appallingly
incompetent and he hoped to God it wasn't him.

Mr. Prosser said: "You were quite entitled to make any suggestions
or protests at the appropriate time you know."



"Appropriate time?" hooted Arthur. "Appropriate time? The first I
knew about it was when a workman arrived at my home yesterday. I
asked him if he'd come to clean the windows and he said no he'd
come to demolish the house. He didn't tell me straight away of course.
Oh no. First he wiped a couple of windows and charged me a fiver.
Then he told me."

"But Mr. Dent, the plans have been available in the local planning
office for the last nine month."

"Oh yes, well as soon as I heard I went straight round to see them,
yesterday afternoon. You hadn't exactly gone out of your way to call
attention to them had you? I mean like actually telling anybody or
anything."

"But the plans were on display..."

"On display? I eventually had to go down to the cellar to find
them."

"That's the display department."

"With a torch."

"Ah, well the lights had probably gone."

"So had the stairs."

"But look, you found the notice didn't you?"

"Yes," said Arthur, "yes I did. It was on display in the bottom of a
locked filing cabinet stuck in a disused lavatory with a sign on the
door saying Beware of the Leopard."

A cloud passed overhead. It cast a shadow over Arthur Dent as he
lay propped up on his elbow in the cold mud. It cast a shadow over
Arthur Dent's house. Mr. Prosser frowned at it.

"It's not as if it's a particularly nice house," he said.

"I'm sorry, but I happen to like it."

"You'll like the bypass."

"Oh shut up," said Arthur Dent. "Shut up and go away, and take
your bloody bypass with you. You haven't got a leg to stand on and
you know it."

Mr. Prosser's mouth opened and closed a couple of times while his
mind was for a moment filled with inexplicable but terribly attractive
visions of Arthur Dent's house being consumed with fire and Arthur
himself running screaming from the blazing ruin with at least three



hefty spears protruding from his back. Mr. Prosser was often
bothered with visions like these and they made him feel very nervous.
He stuttered for a moment and then pulled himself together.

"Mr. Dent," he said.

"Hello? Yes?" said Arthur.

"Some factual information for you. Have you any idea how much
damage that bulldozer would suffer if I just let it roll straight over
you?"

"How much?" said Arthur.

"None at all," said Mr. Prosser, and stormed nervously off
wondering why his brain was filled with a thousand hairy horsemen
all shouting at him.

By a curious coincidence, None at all is exactly how much suspicion
the ape-descendant Arthur Dent had that one of his closest friends
was not descended from an ape, but was in fact from a small planet in
the vicinity of Betelgeuse and not from Guildford as he usually
claimed.

Arthur Dent had never, ever suspected this.

This friend of his had first arrived on the planet some fifteen Earth
years previously, and he had worked hard to blend himself into Earth
society - with, it must be said, some success. For instance he had
spent those fifteen years pretending to be an out of work actor, which
was plausible enough.

He had made one careless blunder though, because he had
skimped a bit on his preparatory research. The information he had
gathered had led him to choose the name "Ford Prefect" as being
nicely inconspicuous.

He was not conspicuously tall, his features were striking but not
conspicuously handsome. His hair was wiry and gingerish and brushed
backwards from the temples. His skin seemed to be pulled backwards
from the nose. There was something very slightly odd about him, but
it was difficult to say what it was. Perhaps it was that his eyes didn't
blink often enough and when you talked to him for any length of time
your eyes began involuntarily to water on his behalf. Perhaps it was
that he smiled slightly too broadly and gave people the unnerving
impression that he was about to go for their neck.



He struck most of the friends he had made on Earth as an eccentric,
but a harmless one - an unruly boozer with some oddish habits. For
instance he would often gatecrash university parties, get badly drunk
and start making fun of any astrophysicist he could find till he got
thrown out.

Sometimes he would get seized with oddly distracted moods and
stare into the sky as if hypnotized until someone asked him what he
was doing. Then he would start guiltily for a moment, relax and grin.

"Oh, just looking for flying saucers," he would joke and everyone
would laugh and ask him what sort of flying saucers he was looking
for.

"Green ones!" he would reply with a wicked grin, laugh wildly for a
moment and then suddenly lunge for the nearest bar and buy an
enormous round of drinks.

Evenings like this usually ended badly. Ford would get out of his
skull on whisky, huddle into a corner with some girl and explain to her
in slurred phrases that honestly the colour of the flying saucers didn't
matter that much really.

Thereafter, staggering semi-paralytic down the night streets he
would often ask passing policemen if they knew the way to
Betelgeuse. The policemen would usually say something like, "Don't
you think it's about time you went off home sir?"

"I'm trying to baby, I'm trying to," is what Ford invariably replied on
these occasions.

In fact what he was really looking out for when he stared
distractedly into the night sky was any kind of flying saucer at all. The
reason he said green was that green was the traditional space livery
of the Betelgeuse trading scouts.

Ford Prefect was desperate that any flying saucer at all would
arrive soon because fifteen years was a long time to get stranded
anywhere, particularly somewhere as mindboggingly dull as the Earth.

Ford wished that a flying saucer would arrive soon because he
knew how to flag flying saucers down and get lifts from them. He
knew how to see the Marvels of the Universe for less than thirty
Altairan dollars a day.

In fact. Ford Prefect was a roving researcher for that wholly
remarkable book The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.



Human beings are great adaptors, and by lunchtime life in the
environs of Arthur's house had settled into a steady routine. It was
Arthur's accepted role to lie squelching in the mud making occasional
demands to see his lawyer, his mother or a good book; it was Mr.
Prosser's accepted role to tackle Arthur with the occasional new ploy
such as the For the Public Good talk, the March of Progress talk, the
They Knocked My House Down Once You Know, Never Looked Back
talk and various other cajoleries and threats; and it was the bulldozer
drivers' accepted role to sit around drinking coffee and experimenting
with union regulations to see how they could turn the situation to
their financial advantage.

The Earth moved slowly in its diurnal course.

The sun was beginning to dry out the mud Arthur lay in.

A shadow moved across him again.

"Hello Arthur," said the shadow.

Arthur looked up and squinting into the sun was startled to see
Ford Prefect standing above him.

"Ford! Hello, how are you?"

"Fine," said Ford, "look, are you busy?"

"Am I busy?" exclaimed Arthur. "Well, I've just got all these
bulldozers and things to lie in front of because they'll knock my house
down if I don't, but other than that... well, no not especially, why?"

They don't have sarcasm on Betelgeuse, and Ford Prefect often
failed to notice it unless he was concentrating. He said, "Good, is
there anywhere we can talk?"

"What?" said Arthur Dent.

For a few seconds Ford seemed to ignore him, and stared fixedly
into the sky like a rabbit trying to get run over by a car. Then suddenly
he squatted down beside Arthur.

"We've got to talk," he said urgently.

"Fine," said Arthur, "talk."

"And drink," said Ford. "It's vitally important that we talk and drink.
Now. We'll go to the pub in the village."

He looked into the sky again, nervous, expectant.



"Look, don't you understand?" shouted Arthur. He pointed at
Prosser. "That man wants to knock my house down!"

Ford glanced at him, puzzled.

"Well he can do it while you're away can't he?" he asked.

"But I don't want him to!"

"Ah."

"Look, what's the matter with you Ford?" said Arthur.

"Nothing. Nothing's the matter. Listen to me - I've got to tell you
the most important thing you've ever heard. I've got to tell you now,
and I've got to tell you in the saloon bar of the Horse and Groom."

"But why?"

"Because you are going to need a very stiff drink."

Ford stared at Arthur, and Arthur was astonished to find that his
will was beginning to weaken. He didn't realize that this was because
of an old drinking game that Ford learned to play in the hyperspace
ports that served the madranite mining belts in the star system of
Orion Beta.

The game was not unlike the Earth game called Indian Wrestling,
and was played like this:

Two contestants would sit either side of a table, with a glass in
front of each of them.

Between them would be placed a bottle of Janx Spirit (as
immortalized in that ancient Orion mining song "Oh don't give me
none more of that Old Janx Spirit/ No, don't you give me none more
of that Old Janx Spirit/ For my head will fly, my tongue will lie, my
eyes will fry and I may die/ Won't you pour me one more of that sinful
Old Janx Spirit").

Each of the two contestants would then concentrate their will on
the bottle and attempt to tip it and pour spirit into the glass of his
opponent - who would then have to drink it.

The bottle would then be refilled. The game would be played again.
And again.

Once you started to lose you would probably keep losing, because
one of the effects of Janx spirit is to depress telepsychic power.



As soon as a predetermined quantity had been consumed, the final
loser would have to perform a forfeit, which was usually obscenely
biological.

Ford Prefect usually played to lose.


Ford stared at Arthur, who began to think that perhaps he did want
to go to the Florse and Groom after all.

"But what about my house...?" he asked plaintively.

Ford looked across to Mr. Prosser, and suddenly a wicked thought
struck him.

"Fie wants to knock your house down?"

"Yes, he wants to build..."

"And he can't because you're lying in front of the bulldozers?"

"Yes, and..."

"I'm sure we can come to some arrangement," said Ford. "Excuse
me!" he shouted.

Mr. Prosser (who was arguing with a spokesman for the bulldozer
drivers about whether or not Arthur Dent constituted a mental health
hazard, and how much they should get paid if he did) looked around.
Fie was surprised and slightly alarmed to find that Arthur had
company.

"Yes? Flello?" he called. "Flas Mr. Dent come to his senses yet?"

"Can we for the moment," called Ford, "assume that he hasn't?"

"Well?" sighed Mr. Prosser.

"And can we also assume," said Ford, "that he's going to be staying
here all day?"

"So?"

"So all your men are going to be standing around all day doing
nothing?"

"Could be, could be..."

"Well, if you're resigned to doing that anyway, you don't actually
need him to lie here all the time do you?"

"What?"


"You don't," said Ford patiently, "actually need him here."



Mr. Prosser thought about this.

"Well no, not as such...", he said, "not exactly need..." Prosser was
worried. He thought that one of them wasn't making a lot of sense.

Ford said, "So if you would just like to take it as read that he's
actually here, then he and I could slip off down to the pub for half an
hour. How does that sound?"

Mr. Prosser thought it sounded perfectly potty.

"That sounds perfectly reasonable," he said in a reassuring tone of
voice, wondering who he was trying to reassure.

"And if you want to pop off for a quick one yourself later on," said
Ford, "we can always cover up for you in return."

"Thank you very much," said Mr. Prosser who no longer knew how
to play this at all, "thank you very much, yes, that's very kind..." He
frowned, then smiled, then tried to do both at once, failed, grasped
hold of his fur hat and rolled it fitfully round the top of his head. He
could only assume that he had just won.